Update for workshops (#81)
fhdsl/FH_Cluster_101: 07-custom-jobs.Rmd

```{r, include = FALSE}
ottrpal::set_knitr_image_path()
```

# Custom jobs

```{r, echo=FALSE, fig.alt='We are on the fifth step of the pathway.', out.width = '80%', fig.align = 'center'}
ottrpal::include_slide("https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BQxrVYdKZTbpCaF-i_q9w7s9x034lEXpQZDU-Sl09cs/edit#slide=id.gff2211b72f_1_229")
```

Once you are comfortable submitting simple jobs, we point out ways customize your jobs to make best use of the computing infrastructure: perhaps you want to change the number of CPUs or RAM to request, or you want to monitor the status of a job running. This section highlights some common requests people use on the Fred Hutch Slurm system.

## Requesting Specific Computing Resources

> By default, when you ran `sbatch 01.sh` in the previous chapter, `sbatch` requested for one CPU on a computing node for your task. Let's change the number of CPUs requested. You can change the number of requested CPUs based on the `-c` option: if you want to request 4 CPUs for your job, you would enter the following:

Reviewer: Could we suggest `--cpus-per-task=<ncpus>` instead of `-c` since it's more descriptive? 

Could also create a callout box that points to the slurm options here : https://slurm.schedmd.com/sbatch.html. E.g., "There are lots of ways to customize your job submission in Slurm. You can even have it email you when your job is finished running! Check out the options [here]"

Author: I'll use both! 

I'm hesitant to link directly to SLURM's documentation as not all of them are available for Fred Hutch cluster.

</details>

You can learn more about other use cases of `sbatch` at the Biomedical Data Science Wiki's page on [computing jobs](https://sciwiki.fredhutch.org/scicomputing/compute_jobs/#submitting-jobs).

### Saving your `sbatch` options

The options you pick for the `sbatch` command, especially around CPU and RAM requests, can have enormous impact on your computing speed and quality. Therefore, it is often a good idea to save the options you have picked into the shell script itself. Suppose that you launched your job like this:

```         
sbatch -c 4 01.sh
```

> To save the `-c 4` option in your shell script, you can add the following header `#SBATCH -c 4` to your script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save the `-c 4` option in your script `01.sh`, you can add the following header `#SBATCH -c 4` to your script:
```

```         
squeue -u clo2
             JOBID PARTITION     NAME     USER ST       TIME  NODES NODELIST(REASON)
          36277207 campus-ne HelloWor     clo2 PD       0:00      1 (Priority)
```

Here, the status ("ST") shows `PD`, which means that the job hasn't started to run yet. When it is running the status will be `R`.

Some common reasons for `PD` include: there are no available resources left for the requested resources for your job, or that your account has already maxed out its allocated resources. The decision of which user's jobs are running is based on the Slurm scheduler system. You can learn more about `squeue`'s outputs at the Biomedical Data Science wiki's [page here](https://sciwiki.fredhutch.org/scicomputing/compute_jobs/#why-isnt-my-job-running).

If you want to end a job that is either waiting (`PD` status) or running, you can enter:

```         
scancel [job id]
```

> where `[job id]` is a numerical ID attached to your unique job. It can be found under `JOBID` when you run `squeue`.

Reviewer: Could we add a dictionary <div> summary at the bottom similar to the other pages?

          36277207 campus-ne HelloWor     clo2 PD       0:00      1 (Priority)
```

> Alternatively, you can also use `--me` to specify the user as yourself:

Reviewer: I like this addition!
